Initial Rules infra merge (#6)
ezgimez/SOMAS-Final-Report: 05_iigo/index.tex

\subsection{Judicial Branch}
\subsection{Accountability Cycle}
\subsection{Rule Representation}
\begin{quote}

>     "Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "Learn the rules like a pro, so you can break them like an artist."
```

    \linebreak
    \noindent \emph{Pablo Picasso}
\end{quote}

> Rules underpin most of the operation of IIGO, and as such we needed their implementation in our project to be very flexible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules underpin most of the operation of the IIGO. Hence, we needed their implementation to be rather flexible in our coursework.
```

> Furthermore, it became clear to us that following rules will be difficult for agents unless we provided them the ability to not only check whether they are complicit with them but also the inner workings of the rules so that agents to calculate for themselves how to become complicit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we noticed that following rules will be difficult for agents unless we provided them with the ability to \emph{not} only check whether they are complicit with them but also with the inner workings of the rules so that agents could calculate for themselves how to become complicit if they wish so.
```

> It became clear to us that we must chose a mathematical representation of rules, since agents would be able to much mroe easily inspect mathematics over a text or functional representation of rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, we also concluded that we should rather opt for a mathematical representation of the rules since agents would be able to much more easily inspect the relevant mathematical equation(s) more easily than a text or functional representation of the rules.
```

Reviewer 2: there are 2 "much more easily" in one sentence

Author: Good spot, will adjust a little later

> The mathematics we settled on was Matrices, and the world of linear algebra that surrounds them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mathematics we decided to employ was matrices and the world of linear algebra that surrounds them.
```

\linebreak

> The premise of this choice was that if a rule could be represented by matrices, then agents could look up every element of the matrix without difficulty. We'd effectively be able to expose the entire operation to the agent without reducing the scope of our rules too much.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The premise of this choice was that if a rule could be represented by matrices, then agents could look up every element of the matrix without any significant difficulty. This would enable us to effectively expose the entire operation of any rule to the agent without reducing the scope of our rules too much.
```

> To give an example of these matrix based rules, let us consider a simple rule first. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give an example for this matrices-based rule representation, let us consider a simple rule first. \\ ```

Reviewer: go to new line bro

> "If you are expected to pay x amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be x"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"If you are expected to pay $X$ amount of taxation, the amount of tax you pay must be $X$."
```

\par

> Quite obviously this is a very simple rule, however it allows us to form a basis for how to represent Rules as matrices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that this rule above is a rather simple one. However, it allows us to form a basis for how to represent rules as matrices.
```

> If our goal is simply to ensure that an agent pays the expected amount of tax, a basic mathematical operation we can perform is subtract the actual tax paid from the expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If our goal is simply to ensure that an agent pays the expected amount of tax, a basic mathematical operation we can perform is to subtract the actual tax paid from the expected.
```

> If we get 0, we know this agent has adhered to this rule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we obtain $0$ from this subtraction, we can conclude that this agent has adhered to this rule. \\
```

> \[

Reviewer: no no, let's write it clearerrrrrrrrr

  \textrm{let expected tax} = x   
\]
\[
    \textrm{let actual paid tax} = y    
\]
\[

>     \textrm{We want    }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Formally, let $x$ and $u$ be the expected and the actual paid amount of tax, respectively. To confirm adherence to the rule, we want
    \begin{equation}
    x - y = 0 . 
    \end{equation}
```

Reviewer 2: $y$, there's a typo

      y - x = 0
\]
To turn this into a matrix calculation, we simply have to introduce some trivial coefficients.

> \[

Reviewer: go to equation mode plzzz... so that we can refer to these equations !!!

Reviewer: `\begin{equation} ... \end{equation}` should do the work

      -1*x +
       1*y = 0
\]

> Now we can write this as a matrix calculation.

Reviewer: we can write Equation~\eqref{...} .... always reference  :)

of course, you need to LABEL the equation above lol

\[

>     \begin{bmatrix}

Reviewer: plz plz `\begin{equation} ... \end{equation}`

        -1 & 1
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y
    \end{bmatrix}   
    = 0  
\]

> We have now encoded this simply rule as a matrix product. An agent can input their versions of x and y, and perform the calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now encoded this simple rule given as an example in terms of a matrix product. An agent can input their versions of $x$ and $y$, and perform the calculation.
```

Reviewer: the calculation ... in which equation.
reference s'il vous plait!

> The agent can then check if their result is 0, if so they are compliant and can pay $y$ tax. Let us revisit our rule, and evolve it a little.

Reviewer: result of... which equation. referenceeeee :)

Reviewer: The agents..... their

> The agent can then check if their result is 0, if so they are compliant and can pay $y$ tax. Let us revisit our rule, and evolve it a little.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agents can then check if their result of .... is equal to $0$.
```

I don't understand the 'compliant' sentence --> revise

\linebreak
\linebreak

> "If you are expected to pay x amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least x"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"If you are expected to pay $x$ amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least $x$."
```

\linebreak
\linebreak

> We can rewrite the matrix equation as an inequality.

Reviewer: which equation? can you plz referrr

\[

>     \begin{bmatrix}

Reviewer: again, `\begin{equation} ... \end{equation}`

        -1 & 1
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y
    \end{bmatrix}   

>     >= 0  

Reviewer: man ,  plz google >= :D 
it is probably `\geq` or smth

\]

> The addition of the "at least" adds a little bit of complexity to our matrix schema. In that we may not be able to simply check for equality to a constant, and may instead need to check for a certain condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The addition of the "at least" (i.e. $\geq$) adds a little bit of complexity to our previously introduced matrix scheme. For this instance, we may not be able to simply check for equality and but instead, need to check for a ....
```

certain condition??? not understandable ---> revise

> To make these comparisons easier, we have decided to ensure that whatever condition, equality or inequality, we would compare to 0.

Reviewer: revise :)) compare WHAT to 0?

> To make these comparisons easier, we have decided to ensure that whatever condition, equality or inequality, we would compare to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make these comparisons easier, we have decided to ensure that whatever condition, equality or inequality, we would compare to $0$. ```

revise the sentence BUT keep the numbers in `$ $`

> However if our tax rule looked like this (for whatever reason):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if our tax rule was to be as the following:
```

LOL i speak some diff english than y'all

\linebreak
\linebreak

> "If you are expected to pay x amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least x + 5"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"If you are expected to pay $x$ amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least $x + 5$."
```

\linebreak
\linebreak

> Then it would be impossible to capture that using the current matrix calculation, so to capture these cases we introduce a constant to the input list, as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, it would be impossible to capture this rule using the previously suggested matrix scheme. Therefore, to capture such cases of rules, we introduce a \emph{constant} to the input list, as below.
```

\[

>     \begin{bmatrix}

Reviewer: again... `\begin{equation} \end{equation}`

        -1 & 1 & -5
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}   
    >= 0  
\]

> We have now managed to capture any linear equation or inequality with any constant shift. This is where we decided to limit the scope of our rules from a technical aspect.

Reviewer: can you... refer to some equations??

> The final section of our schema is how to inform an agent whether it should be looking for equality or inequality.

Reviewer: schema ----> scheme

> For this, we package with the rule-matrix an "auxiliary" vector containing a list of comparison codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this end, we incorporate an \emph{auxiliary} vector containing a list of comparison codes to the previously discussed matrix-based rule representation.
```

comparison codes?? hm......

\begin{table}[h]
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{ll}
    \hline

>     \multicolumn{1}{|l}{Aux code} & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{Meaning} \\ \hline

Reviewer: Auxilliary code..

do NOT shorten :)

    0                             & = 0                          \\

>     1                             & \textgreater 0               \\

Reviewer: $\geq$ for greater than equal....

similarly, could you PLZ find the relevant latex commands..
<= does not look very good lol

    2                             & \textgreater{}= 0            \\
    3                             & != 0                         \\
    4                             & real                        
    \end{tabular}
\end{table}
\linebreak

> The aux code 4 is reserved for when we want the raw result of the matrix multiplication, which is used sparingly for certain rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The auxilliary code 4 is reserved for the cases where we want the raw result of the matrix multiplication, which is used sparingly for certain rules.
```

can you give an example of such a rule? would be LIT

> We have now arrived at the representation of rules we are using for our project. For the rule above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now arrived at the representation of rules we are using for our coursework. For the rule above, we have the following rule representation:
```

project -----> coursework

\[
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1 & -5
    \end{bmatrix}

>     \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }

Reviewer: go to ANOTHER equation.. do NOT put them side by side plzzzz

`\begin{equation} \end{equation}` should do the work :)

    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\]
\[

>     \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 

Reviewer: again.. another `\begin{equation} .. \end{equation}` for this one as well

    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\]

> Let us revist our tax rule once more, adding a further layer of complexity.

Reviewer: this looks a bit weeeiiirrddd in my VSCode.. check?

Reviewer: oh ok, it is because of `\linebreak` 

you can swap this with `\\` or something. BUT make sure that the text doesn't look weiiiirrrdddd

\linebreak
\linebreak

> "You must pay in tax at least half as many resources as you have and if you've been told to pay tax x you must pay at least tax of x."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"You must pay in tax at least half as many resources as you have and if you've been told to pay tax $x$, you must pay at least $x$ amount of tax."
```

Reviewer: do `\\` or something 
to make sure you start with a NEW line

> In this example there are two separate conditions. We can write both conditions as separate rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, note that there are two separate conditions. We can write both conditions as separate rules.
```

Condition 1:
\[
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}

>     \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }

Reviewer: plz plz go to another equation :) 
do NOT write on the same line

`\begin{equation} \end{equation}` plzzzzz

    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\]
\[
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\]
\linebreak
Condition 2:
\[
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1 & 0 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}
    \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\]
\[

>     \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 

Reviewer: wait.. isn't this a scalar lol

Author: All scalars are a 1-d vector, very smol region of space.

    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\]

> However, we can also write this as a single stacked rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we can also write this as a single stacked rule as follows:
```

\[
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0 \\
        -1 & 1 & 0 & 0 
    \end{bmatrix}

>     \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }

Reviewer: aagain... plz plz go to ANOTHER line and do `\begin{equation} ..` thingy

    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\]
\[
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 \\
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\]

> The real power of this representation of rules is that the mechanics of the calculation is exposed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The advantage of this matrix-based rule representation is that the mechanics of the calculation is exposed. 
```

exposed?? what you mean B R O

> Any agent can inspect the elements of the rule matrix and simply calculate what values they must provide to pass the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any agent can inspect the elements of the rule matrix in order to easily calculate what values they must provide to adhere to a specific rule.
```

> For example, if an agent is looking at the above rule and knows that their resource count is 120, and also know they've been asked to pay 75, they can go line by line through the matrix to work our what the minimum amount of tax that is needed to be paid.

Reviewer: above.. hmm....

maybe, we should define some environment for rules..
can you try 
`\begin{rule} \end{rule}` plz !!!
and THEN we can reference them easilyyyyy

> \[

Reviewer: plz plz.... define equation!!!! `\begin{equation} ...` thingy

    \textrm{Matrix line 1: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}
\]
\[
    \textrm{Values to be fed in: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        75 \\
        x \\
        120 \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}
\]
\[
    \textrm{Agent calculation: }
    0*75 + 2x -120 >= 0
\]
\[

>     x >= 60

Reviewer: :( sad
`\geq` should do the work

\]
A similar calculation for the next line of the matrix yields:
\[
    \textrm{Agent calculation: }

>     x >= 75

Reviewer: `\geq` plzzzzzz

\]

> The agent can understand now to pay a minimum of 75. This system allows Agents to both check if they are compliant, and if not they can calculate which values they need to be compliant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the equations above, the agent is able to understand that it needs to pay a minimum of $75$ for tax. This system allows the agents both to check if they are compliant and if not, how to calculate which values they need to be compliant.
```

> As a final note, we have designed an additional abstraction to this rules system to accomodate conditional rules.

Reviewer: gr888 wording

> For example if you had the rule "If resources are above 100, you must pay at least 75". 

Reviewer: plz plz do this
`\begin{rule} \end{rule}` thingy....
AND go to math mode for numbers
example:
`$100$`

> To acommodate this we instead split this into two separate rules; "If resources are above 100" and "You must pay at least 75", and conditionally execute them such that if rule 1 fails then the whole structure passes and if rule 1 passes we expect rule 2 to pass.

Reviewer: To accomodate the rule xxxxx.
refernce it :)))

Reviewer: define `\begin{rule} \end{rule}` for this rule as wel

Moreover, we also concluded that we should rather opt for a mathematical representation of the rules since agents would be able to much more easily inspect the relevant mathematical equation(s) more easily than a text or functional representation of the rules.
The mathematics we decided to employ was matrices and the world of linear algebra that surrounds them.
\linebreak
The premise of this choice was that if a rule could be represented by matrices, then agents could look up every element of the matrix without any significant difficulty. This would enable us to effectively expose the entire operation of any rule to the agent without reducing the scope of our rules too much.
To give an example for this matrices-based rule representation, let us consider a simple rule first. \\ ```
\begin{rule_IIGO}
    "If you are expected to pay $X$ amount of taxation, the amount of tax you pay must be $X$."
\label{rule:basicTaxRule}
\end{rule_IIGO}
\par

> Notice that rule \ref{rule:basicTaxRule} is a rather simple one. However, it allows us to form a basis for how to represent rules as matrices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that Rule~\ref{rule:basicTaxRule} is a rather simple one. However, it allows us to form a basis for how to represent rules as matrices.
```

If our goal is simply to ensure that an agent pays the expected amount of tax, a basic mathematical operation we can perform is to subtract the actual tax paid from the expected.
If we obtain $0$ from this subtraction, we can conclude that this agent has adhered to this rule. \\

> Formally, let $x$ and $y$ be the expected and the actual paid amount of tax, respectively. To confirm adherence to the rule, we want

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formally, let $x$ and $y$ be the expected and the actual paid amount of tax, respectively. To confirm adherence to the rule, we want to calculate:
```

\begin{equation}
    y - x = 0 . 
    \label{equation:basicMaths}
\end{equation}

> To turn \ref{equation:basicMaths}  into a matrix calculation, we simply have to introduce some trivial coefficients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To turn Equation~\eqref{equation:basicMaths} into a matrix calculation, we simply have to introduce some trivial coefficients.
```

\begin{equation}
    -1*x +
       1*y = 0
       \label{equation:coefLinear}
\end{equation}
      

> Now we can write \ref{equation:coefLinear} as a matrix calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we can write Equation~\eqref{equation:coefLinear} as a matrix calculation.
```

> Now we can write \ref{equation:coefLinear} as a matrix calculation.

Reviewer: let's use `\eqref` for equations...
AS STATED in the guidelines :)

Author: Apologies

\begin{equation}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y
    \end{bmatrix}   
    = 0  
    \label{equation:firstMatrix}
\end{equation}

We have now encoded this simple rule given as an example in terms of a matrix product. An agent can input their versions of $x$ and $y$, and perform the calculation.

> The agents can then check if their result of \ref{equation:firstMatrix} is equal to $0$. Let us examine a slightly more complicated rule. \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agents can then check if their result of Equation~\eqref{equation:firstMatrix} is equal to $0$. Let us examine a slightly more complicated rule. \\
```

\begin{rule_IIGO}
    "If you are expected to pay $x$ amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least $x$."
\end{rule_IIGO}

We can rewrite the matrix equation as an inequality.
\begin{equation}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y
    \end{bmatrix}   
    \geq 0
    \label{equation:basicInequality}  
\end{equation}

> The addition of the "at least" (i.e. $\geq$) in \ref{equation:basicInequality} adds a little bit of complexity to our previously introduced matrix scheme. For this instance, we may not be able to simply check for equality and but instead, need to check for a $\geq$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The addition of the "at least" (i.e. $\geq$) in Equation~\eqref{equation:basicInequality} adds a little bit of complexity to our previously introduced matrix scheme. For this instance, we may not be able to simply check for equality and but instead, need to check for a $\geq$.
```

We made a decision that we would ensure all of our calculations would be compared to $0$. This allowed us to reduce the complexity of our calculation algorithms.

> However, with this simplification we encounter a problem with a rule like \ref{rule:taxWithOffset}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, with this simplification, we encounter a problem with a rule like Rule~\ref{rule:taxWithOffset}.
```

\begin{rule_IIGO}
    "If you are expected to pay $x$ amount of tax, the amount of tax you pay must be at least $x + 5$."
    \label{rule:taxWithOffset}
\end{rule_IIGO}

> In this case, it would be impossible to capture this rule using the previously suggested matrix scheme. Therefore, to capture such cases of rules, we introduce a \emph{constant} to the input list, as below in \ref{equation:inequalityWithOffset}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, it would be impossible to capture this rule using the previously suggested matrix scheme. Therefore, to capture such cases of rules, we introduce a \emph{constant} to the input list, as below in Equation~\eqref{equation:inequalityWithOffset}.
```

\begin{equation}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1 & -5
    \end{bmatrix}
    \begin{bmatrix}
        x \\
        y \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}   
    \geq 0 
    \label{equation:inequalityWithOffset} 
\end{equation}

We have now managed to capture any linear equation or inequality with any constant shift. This is where we decided to limit the scope of our rules from a technical aspect.

> The final section of our schema is how to inform an agent whether it should be looking for equality or inequality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final section of our scheme is how to inform an agent whether it should be looking for equality or inequality.
```

For this end, we incorporate an \emph{auxiliary} vector containing a list of comparison codes to the previously discussed matrix-based rule representation.\\
\begin{table}[h]
    \centering
    \begin{tabular}{ll}
    \hline

>     \multicolumn{1}{|l}{Auxiliary code} & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{Meaning} \\ \hline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \multicolumn{1}{|l}{Auxiliary Code} & \multicolumn{1}{l|}{Meaning} \\ \hline
```

    0                             & = 0                          \\
    1                             & > 0               \\
    2                             & $\geq$ 0            \\
    3                             & != 0                         \\
    4                             & real                        
    \end{tabular}
    \label{table:auxCodeTable}
\end{table}
\linebreak

> In table \ref{table:auxCodeTable} the auxilliary code 4 is reserved for the cases where we want the raw result of the matrix multiplication, which is used sparingly for certain rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As seen in Table~\ref{table:auxCodeTable}, the auxilliary code 4 is reserved for the cases where we want the raw result of the matrix multiplication, which is used sparingly for certain rules.
```

We have now arrived at the representation of rules we are using for our coursework. For the rule above, we have the following rule representation:
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1 & -5
    \end{bmatrix}      
    \label{equation:initialRM}     
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }  
    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\end{equation}

> Let us revist \ref{rule:taxWithOffset} once more, adding a further layer of complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us revist Rule~\ref{rule:taxWithOffset} once more, adding a further layer of complexity.
```

> Let us revist Rule~\ref{rule:taxWithOffset} once more, adding a further layer of complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us revisit Rule~\ref{rule:taxWithOffset} once more, adding a further layer of complexity.
```

\\ Condition 1:
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}
    \label{equation:rx1}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\end{equation}
\[
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\]
Condition 2:
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        -1 & 1 & 0 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}
    \label{equation:rx2}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
\textrm{   Variables to fill:  }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\end{equation}

> However, we can also write both \ref{equation:rx1} and \ref{equation:rx2} as a single stacked rule as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, we can also write both Equation~\eqref{equation:rx1} and Equation~\eqref{equation:rx2} as a single stacked rule as follows:
```

\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Rule matrix: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0 \\
        -1 & 1 & 0 & 0 
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Variables to fill:  }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        \textrm{Amount of tax agent is asked to pay} \\
        \textrm{Amount of tax the agent is actually paying} \\
        \textrm{Amount of resources agent has} \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}     
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{   Auxiliary vector: } 
    \begin{bmatrix}
        2 \\
        2 
    \end{bmatrix}   
\end{equation}
The advantage of this matrix-based rule representation is that the mechanics of the calculation is exposed. 
Any agent can inspect the elements of the rule matrix in order to easily calculate what values they must provide to adhere to a specific rule.

> For example, if an agent is looking at the above rule and knows that their resource count is 120, and also know they've been asked to pay 75, they can go line by line through the matrix to work our what the minimum amount of tax that is needed to be paid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if an agent is looking at the above rule and knows that their resource count is $120$, and also know they've been asked to pay $75$, they can go line by line through the matrix to work our what the minimum amount of tax that is needed to be paid.
```

> For example, if an agent is looking at the above rule and knows that their resource count is 120, and also know they've been asked to pay 75, they can go line by line through the matrix to work our what the minimum amount of tax that is needed to be paid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if an agent is looking at the above rule and knows that their resource count is $120$, and also know they've been asked to pay $75$, they can go line by line through the matrix to work our what the minimum amount of tax that is needed to be paid.
```

\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Matrix line 1: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        0 & 2 & -1 & 0
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Values to be fed in: }
    \begin{bmatrix}
        75 \\
        x \\
        120 \\
        1
    \end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Agent calculation: }
    0*75 + 2x -120 \geq 0
\end{equation}
\begin{equation}
    x \geq 60
\end{equation}
A similar calculation for the next line of the matrix yields:
\begin{equation}
    \textrm{Agent calculation: }
    x \geq 75
\end{equation}
Following the equations above, the agent is able to understand that it needs to pay a minimum of $75$ for tax. This system allows the agents both to check if they are compliant and if not, how to calculate which values they need to be compliant.
As a final note, we have designed an additional abstraction to this rules system to accomodate conditional rules.
For example if you had the rule 
\begin{rule_IIGO}
    "If resources are above $100$, you must pay at least $75$".
\end{rule_IIGO} 

> To acommodate this we instead split this into two separate rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To accommodate this, we instead split this into two separate rules.
```

\begin{rule_IIGO}

>     "If resources are above 100"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "If resources are above $100$,"
```

    \label{rule:cond1}
\end{rule_IIGO}
\begin{rule_IIGO}

>     "You must pay at least 75"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "You must pay at least $75$."
```

    \label{rule:cond2}
\end{rule_IIGO}

> We then conditionally execute them such that if rule \ref{rule:cond1} fails then the whole structure passes and if rule \ref{rule:cond1} passes we expect rule \ref{rule:cond2} to pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then conditionally execute them such that if Rule~\ref{rule:cond1} fails then the whole structure passes, and if Rule~\ref{rule:cond1} passes, we expect Rule~\ref{rule:cond2} to pass as well for the rule to be adhered.
```
